:title: Flowing Through the Day
:date: 2013-01-25

`Flow state`_ is an important aspect of my life. I remember slipping into flow
while building things with LEGO as a kid. Then later when executing my best
runs while skateboarding at the skate park. When I was a bit older it was
during tests in school and while writing some of my first programs. These cases
were never intentional though. They happened and it was cool that I got a lot
of work done, then I'd go to do more and flounder.

Later, when I started writing software more seriously, I started to try to
induce this state. Unfortunately, I didn't have words for it, there was just
good focus vs bad focus. One afternoon I was reading a blog post about athletes
and being in the zone, which sort of reminded me of what I knew of when I was
programming. I can't find the post now, but searching for "the zone" let me
find articles about flow.

Since then it has been a journey of trying to find triggers, figure out if any
chemicals like caffeine can assist or hurt. There is a lot of research, but not
a ton of it is good.

For me, I've been finding it is easier to get into flow in the extremities of
the day. Either in the morning or at night. Afternoon or evening is generally a
bust for me. Caffeine if I am not constantly drinking it, can be a great tool
for when I need to sit down and get a lot of work done. Finally environment can
be really influential, coffee shops and the like tend to be a good place for
me, especially where I don't know as many people. Conversely, at the office
where I do know folks is terrible.

Keeping these things in mind, if it is a work day I try to spend my morning
cranking out code and really getting stuff done while ignoring work chat unless
someone directly mentions me. Often times I'll go to a coffee shop (SE Grind is
my current favorite) so I can get food and caffeine. Then in the latter half of
the work day I am on work chat more, helping people out or discussing
things. Between the two phases of the day I've been able to be more productive
lately.

Non-work days I try to get my SC2 practice in the morning and at night. Using
the middle of the day for relaxing, riding my bike, and getting chores done. I
expect to have more to post on this topic in a few weeks after I see how this
is working out for me. Until then, have a good day!

.. _`Flow state`: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flow_(psychology)
