:title: Fundamentals
:date: 2013-02-14

Just like in StarCraft 2 and in writing software, fundamentals are important for
life. I was thinking about how I'll plan out my time to in enough cycling time,
StarCraft 2 time, and work/side project time when I realized in or to get this
stuff done, I'm going to need a proper sleep schedule. On top of that I need to
have discipline, another fundamental skill.

What it is looking like is I need to spend time working out my sleep schedule,
eating and work habits, as well as chores. Getting to a good base for chores
will be on the easier side since my landlord is coming for a yearly inspection
tomorrow. Some base needs for chores are getting in a more regular cycle of
laundry that isn't just, "I'm completely out of t-shirts, boxers and socks, I
should do laundry." Preferably, I'd get to a point where I was doing laundry
weekly and didn't let it pile up until I have 2-3 loads to do.

Other chores include chipping in with house cleaning and doing bike maintenance.
If I start doing other things (like cooking at home) better, I'll find myself
using the kitchen more and needing to contribute there regularly. As it is, I
don't feel like I help out in the house enough. On top of that, I haven't been
doing the weekly/monthly maintenance on my bike like I should be, my chains need
to be lubed, my tires are low on my specialized, etc. 

Sleeping, which I should be doing right now as it is 1am, is generally easier to
fix over a weekend when I can enforce a sleeping schedule and just deal with any
tiredness without a drop in my work productivity. I'd like to get in a schedule
where I went to sleep at 9-10pm, woke up at 5-6am, then start work at 8-9am.
Between the waking up and the working I'd like to get in a light breakfast,
cycling, more breakfast, then a shower. On top of setting a regular start time
for work, this will also put me on the path to set new personal records on my
centuries and other long rides this year.

A thing touched on couple times above that is also fundamental is dietary
needs. If I am going to be training and fixing up my sleeping, then fixing my
eating habits is also required. Eating when I wake up in the morning will help
with adjusting to the sleep cycle and maintaining it. The fuel will help me with
being able to cycle for an hour or two in the morning. And finally, if I do it
properly, I should lose some weight as well.

Reporting what I've worked on to my boss was an important step for me to find,
reclaim and motivate my productivity. But I fell out of it when I was in
Mountain View for a week and have been forgetting to work on it. We also moved
to a small teams setup at work (which I'll talk about in a Tech post), which has
me doing 2 more meetings each week, but focuses the parts of the code base that
I am expected to work in and, to an extent, own. 

These are all fundamentals that I should practice, the cycling, SC2, side
projects, etc are all secondary. Focusing on them to the detriment of these
things will end up harming the whole. This means until I get control of my sleep
schedule and have done so for a while, late night hacking sessions or SC2 with
my friends at midnight are things that aren't allowed to happen. Eating nothing
but junk food all day is not ok. Starting my evening gaming or events before
I've gotten my work goals for the day done, wont be happening.

To quote zefrank, "Warts and all! Let's start this shit up!"
