:title: TheStaircase
:date: 2013-01-12

I've off and on used a system called TheStaircase_. So much so that I am even
working on `thestaircase.org`_. It has a really intuitive style for learning SC2
and getting better. It was actually a lot of my motivation behind making
SpendingQ_.

I'm doing this part time mixing with full unit play. I've made it out of the
first step a few times, even up as far as the 4th step. But this time instead of
only shooting a single league higher I am trying to hit the benchmarks for
Master level players. This means really paying attention to my macro, less on
the side of expanding enough and more on the side of spending all the money I
have coming in.

It is a common theme for me, and I imagine others, to be doing pretty fine
spending wise while you are on one base because the income rate is so low. When
you are in the process of saturating your second base is almost easier because
probes build fast and when chrono'd will burn your minerals really fast.

Once you have a second base saturated, even while you are saturating a third it
is really easy to not be building units fast enough to use your minerals and
gas. This appears to be two problems compounding each other. The first is that
the player wont know how many production buildings to have for their base count
and expected unit composition, so they can't produce fast enough to burn their
income. The second comes from not building units on every cycle they can, this
is leaving buildings not producing, not using your larva as soon as possible, or
missing warp in cycles.

The solution comes two fold as well. It requires you to research your build,
play it a bunch of times, and really know and understand the amount of
production you need to spend your resources. The second is paying attention and
not letting buildings sit unused, which comes from playing more games and having
that be a focus of your play.

In the coming weeks I plan on having a weekly wrap up of the things I have
worked on. I've started doing this daily with some other things in my life and I
like. I feel like in a week I'll have the same amount of progress/information as
a single day of work (5-10 hours of practice in a week, 6-10 hours of work in a
day.)

Look for the updates in the future!

.. _TheStaircase: http://www.teamliquid.net/forum/viewmessage.php?topic_id=374400
.. _`thestaircase.org`: http://thestaircase.org/
.. _SpendingQ: http://spendingq.com/
